staff at universities across the
Netherlands are staging a walk out and
this follows a violent police Crackdown
on Pro Palestinian protesters on
Amsterdam University's campus last week
the students are demanding the
university divest from Israeli link
companies and they're calling for a
ceasefire in Gaza Steph vasson joining
us now from Amsterdam to tell us what's
going on where you are
St well this brast is not been called by
students by but by University staff and
they are now here with hundreds walking
uh outside of they walked out of the
University out of their classes out of
their offices uh to protest against
police violence happening here at the
same University last week when a
bulldozer came in and Riot police and
full gear uh beating students protesters
there were hundreds of people wounded
and University staff says that their
right to protest has been violated and
I'm joined here by one of the organizers
of this process is a professor of
Sociology Sarah braa thank you for
joining us so why exactly did you just
walk out of
University well we here is the staff of
University of Amsterdam of the Free
University and of the Amsterdam
University College so it's actually um
uh three three higher education
institutions um we walked out very near
to where the student encampment was last
Monday that was violently that was a
peaceful encampment and that was
violently uh the police was Unleashed
upon students and staff and so students
and staff protesting genocide ongoing
genocide so we're here for two reasons
we're here because there's an ongoing
genocide in which our governments and
our institutions including our
universities in the west are complicit
and we want to end that complicity and
we're here because our right to protest
that in a peaceful way has indeed been
uh yeah we've been violently beaten down
so in a political climate where
fundamental uh Democratic rights like
the rights to protest freedom of speech
academic freedom right of assembly is
really Under Pressure uh that is why
we're here today student council has
also asked for the resignation of the
board of the University saying also that
their treatment was very much
respectless uh can you describe what
exactly happened how many people were
injured and what kind of injuries are we
talking about so it all began with a
very peaceful student encampment um
where there was also staff um and police
was Unleashed upon the encampment um
they came with bulldozers uh it's
actually almost by chance that there
were people um didn't get under the
bulldozer people were sleeping in the
tents they were beaten um while they
were in the tents uh there were dogs
were Unleashed upon people so it was a
very excessive uh police violence uh
that was used against students and staff
and I think I actually also want to
mention because in the Netherlands um I
want to mention that there were Jewish
students and Jewish staff uh beaten up
as well because the argument of the
safety of Jewish students on campus is
used a lot well Jewish students were
beaten up on Monday on campus thank you
so much for joining us live on Al jazer
the students and also the staff are
saying that the treatment of these
protests here in Amsterdam are harsher
than what we seen have seen in other
countries and uh the walk out did not
just happen here in Amsterdam but at
other universities in the Netherlands at
this very moment as well okay Steph
thank you so much for that reporting
from
Amsterdam make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al